Data encryption Public Beta [DOC-688] (#5233)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/privacy/hipaa-eligible-segment.md

 - `end_user_id`: Segment sometimes assigns this unique identifier to an end-user, event, audience, or journey, depending on the event type
 - `timestamp`: Time in UTC when the action occurred

These logs can be provided upon request. For specific requests, please reach out to [friends@segment.com](mailto:friends@segment.com){:target="_blank"}.

## Data encryption

Segment encrypts the data in select fields [marked as yellow in the Privacy Portal](/docs/privacy/portal/#default-pii-matchers) before sending them to event stream, cloud mode destinations, further supporting HIPAA compliance in your destinations. 

> info "Data encryption is currently in public beta"
> Data encryption only supports event-stream, cloud-mode destinations. Only data fields in `context`, `traits`, and `property` objects can be encrypted. 
>

> > After Segment encrypts the data, the encrypted data value will always be a `string`. Any downstream validation that looks for `integer` or `boolean` data types will fail for encrypted values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> After Segment encrypts the data, the encrypted data value is always a `string`. Any downstream validation that looks for `integer` or `boolean` data types will fail for encrypted values.
```

### Configure data encryption for a new destination

To configure data encryption while setting up a new destination:
1. From the [Destinations page in the Segment App](https://app.segment.com/goto-my-workspace/destinations/){:target="_blank"}, click **Add destination**.
2. Select a destination from the catalog and click **Configure**.
3. On the destination's overview page, click **Add destination**. 
4. On the Select data source page, select the source you want to connect to your destination and click **Next**.
5. On the Setup page, give your destination a name, fill in any optional settings, and select the **Have Segment encrypt sensitive data** checkbox.
6. Open the **Fields** dropdown, select one or more fields you'd like to encrypt and click the **Generate Encryption Keys** button. <br> *If you don't see all of the fields that you want to encrypt, [change the classification of your missing data fields](/docs/privacy/portal/#change-a-recommended-classification) to Yellow in the Privacy Portal*.<br> 

> 7. Securely store your private key - **once you finish setting up the destination, this key cannot be retrieved**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Securely store your private key.  **Note:** Once you finish setting up the destination, you cannot retrieve the key. 
```

8. Click **Create destination**.

> > error "Private Key is not recoverable"

Reviewer: should this be a warning rather than an error?

Author: If you lose access to the private decryption key you lose the ability to decrypt your data, so I oped to use an error message because that's a destructive/not-reversible action, which is what the [formatting guide](https://segment.com/docs/utils/formatguide/#alerts) recommends!

> Segment does not save the private key created during the data encryption setup flow, and cannot retrieve the key after you finish setting up your destination. You can generate a new key using the instructions in the [Configure new key pairs](#configure-new-key-pairs) section. Any data encrypted prior to generating a new key pair cannot be decrypted with the new key. 

### Configure data encryption for an existing destination
 
To configure data encryption for an existing destination:
1. Open the [My destinations page](https://app.segment.com/goto-my-workspace/destinations){:target="_blank”} in the Segment app.
2. Select a destination, and click the **Data Encryption** tab.
3. On the Data Encryption page, select the **Have Segment encrypt sensitive data** checkbox.
4. Open the **Fields** dropdown, select one or more fields you'd like to encrypt and click the **Generate Encryption Keys** button. <br> *If you don't see all of the fields that you want to encrypt, [change the classification of your missing data fields](/docs/privacy/portal/#change-a-recommended-classification) to Yellow in the Privacy Portal*.<br> 

> 5. Securely store your private key - **once you finish configuring data encryption, this key cannot be retrieved**. 

Author: ```suggestion
5. Securely store your private key.  <br> **Note:** Once you finish setting up the destination, you cannot retrieve the key.
```

6. Click **Save**.

> error "Private Key is not recoverable"
> Segment does not save the private key created during the data encryption setup flow, and cannot retrieve the key after you finish setting up your destination. You can generate a new key using the instructions in the [Configure new key pairs](#configure-new-key-pairs) section. Any data encrypted prior to generating a new key pair cannot be decrypted with the new key. 

### Configure new key pairs

If you lose access to your private key, you can generate a new key pair in your destination's Data Encryption tab. Any data previously encrypted using the previous key pair is unaffected, but cannot be decrypted using the new key.

To generate a new key pair:
1. Open the [My destinations page](https://app.segment.com/goto-my-workspace/destinations){:target="_blank”} in the Segment app.
2. Select the destination you'd like to create new keys for and click **Data Encryption**.
3. Click **Regenerate Encryption Keys**.

> 4. Securely store your private key - **once you close the dialog box, this key cannot be retrieved**. 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Securely store your private key.  <br> **Note:** Once you finish setting up the destination, you cannot retrieve the key.
```

5. Click **Save Changes** to update the key pair. 

### Edit encrypted fields

> After enabling encryption for a destination, you can add or remove encrypted data fields in your destination's Data Encryption tab. All changes made to fields are forward-looking. You may experience some latency between making the changes and having the changes take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling encryption for a destination, you can add or remove encrypted data fields in your destination's **Data Encryption** tab. All changes made to fields are forward-looking. You may experience some latency between making the changes and having the changes take effect.
```

Reviewer: do we know the latency period?

Author: I'm asking the PM to confirm but afaik it's a variable amount of time

Author: PM confirmed it was a variable amount of time!

To make changes to your selected fields:
1. Open the [My destinations page](https://app.segment.com/goto-my-workspace/destinations){:target="_blank”} in the Segment app.
2. Select the destination you'd like to edit your selected fields for and click **Data Encryption**.
3. Add or remove fields. 

>   - To add fields, click into the **Fields** box to open the dropdown and select one or more fields you'd like to add.

Reviewer: do you have to click into the box or can you just click the box?

Author: You have to click inside of the box to trigger the dropdown - I don't know if there's a more elegant way to articulate that outside of saying "click into the **Fields** box..."

Reviewer: Can we just say: To add fields, click the **Fields** box to open the dropdown and select the fields you'd like to add. ?

>   - To add fields, click into the **Fields** box to open the dropdown and select one or more fields you'd like to add.

Author: ```suggestion
  - To add fields, click the **Fields** box to open the dropdown and select the fields you'd like to add.
```

>   - To remove fields, click the x icon next to the name of the field you'd like to remove. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To remove fields, click the **x** icon next to the name of the field you'd like to remove. 
```
